hey guys so my name is Rhonda Percival
II I'm a student of II PhD I do
biomedical research at st. Jude
Children's Research Hospital and talking
about information overload I'm about to
give you guys 34 references of
information on 20 slides and five
minutes so be prepared I hope you get at
least one thing from from my talk
tonight and so I'll go and get started
I'm going to talk to you about how what
you eat and what you do can affect your
genes and more importantly how you can
how your lifestyle can basically extend
the youthful part of your life and help
you age better so did you know that
exercise use four times a week actually
four hours a week can increase
neurogenesis that is the growth of new
brain cells actually it can even
increase the hippocampus that's the part
of your brain that's involved in
learning and memory we know some of the
things that increase neurogenesis are
exercised dark chocolate and tea
blueberries and red wine and actually
believe it or not people sex and
cannabinoids
which are found in marijuana I'm just
the messenger I'm just the messenger
okay things that suppress neurogenesis
trans fats refined sugar like high
fructose corn syrup nicotine binge
alcohol cocaine and heroin and of course
as we know chronic stress these monkeys
are the same age the monkey on the left
has had a normal diet its entire life
the monkey on the right has had 30% less
food its entire life look how much
younger the monkey on the right looks
and think about which monkey you want to
be okay we know that eating 30% less
food has changed changes your gene it
decreases genes that are involved in
inflammation it decreases the expression
of genes that are involved in oxidative
stress it increases the in spurts of
neural trophic factors so why is there a
trend towards eating more childhood
obesity is an epidemic United States in
1970 was 5% of the popular children were
obese and in 2004 were up to 20% so how
does this affect the help
your cost in 2003 we had basically 75
billion dollars were spent towards
obesity-related diseases that is enough
money to feed clothe in school 45
million children in developing countries
do you have to ask yourself are we D
evolving in this society where we're
relying heavily on foods we don't know
where they came from we don't know
what's in them fast foods processed
foods it's no wonder we are having an
increase in age-related diseases
vitamin D can actually protect your DNA
telomeres or caps at the end of your DNA
that protected from unwinding and if
they decrease every year with age
vitamin D can actually protect telomere
length so these these mites are the same
age the mouse on the left has not been
able to have vitamin D its entire life
and the mouse on the right has had
normal levels in vitamin D so clearly
vitamin D is somehow involved in the
aging process now you may think you're
getting enough vitamin D but actually
sunscreen dark skin color high body fat
and age all affect the ability of your
body to produce vitamin D if you are any
of these things you probably are not
getting enough vitamin D inflammation is
a major cause of Aging we have
inflammatory molecules that are being
produced constantly as we age did you
know that omega-3 can actually reduce
the expression of genes that are
involved in inflammation people take
your fish oil white tea white tea can
actually reduce the expression of genes
that are involved in the growth of new
fat cells you may want to grab a cup of
tea next time instead of your cup of
coffee in the morning the AGC these are
very very potent antioxidants and those
antioxidants and white tea have been
shown to reduce the expression of last
days and collagen Aizaz which break down
collagen yet UV radiation is a very
major cause of skin ageing and this
little kid has the right expression on
his face vitamin C is absolutely
essential for the synthesis of collagen
you cannot make collagen without vitamin
C collagen is not only important for
your skin but it's an important
component of blood vessels tendons bones
and ligaments just remember scurvy don't
want it
okay when you eat fructose it reacts
with proteins lipids and DNA in your
body to produce something called
advanced vacation end products these are
very potent very dangerous molecules
that are cumulating throughout your body
as you age damaging everything from
college into your brain to your heart
your kidney did you know that vitamin b6
here can actually suppress the
production of those advanced medication
and products ladies oral contraceptives
deplete your vitamin b6 levels and
lastly the sauna hyperthermia from sauna
bathing can increase the expression of
growth hormone and actually increases
lean muscle mass and prevent muscle
atrophy so what does that mean it means
when you're eating 30% less food when
you're fasting instead of losing muscle
you'll lose fat my name is Rhonda prissy
belly check out my website I found my
fitness calm you can find me on Facebook
and Twitter I'm also trying to set up a
nutrition and health meetup and I have
sign-up sheets in the the lobby if
you're interested so come and talk to me
thank you